Tutorial - Cohere analytics (#8283)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/cohere-analytics.md

---
title: How to set up LLM analytics for Cohere

> date: 2024-04-09

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-04-18
```

- A label to show Cohere's output.
- A dropdown to select different [Cohere models](https://docs.cohere.com/docs/command-r).

First, ensure [Node.js is installed](https://nodejs.dev/en/learn/how-to-install-nodejs/) (version 18.0 or newer). Then run the following script to create a new Next.js app and install both the [Cohere JavaScript](https://github.com/cohere-ai/cohere-typescript?tab=readme-ov-file) and [PostHog Web](/docs/libraries/js) SDKs:

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest cohere-analytics
cd cohere-analytics
npm install --save cohere-ai
npm install --save posthog-js
cd ./src/app
touch providers.js # we set up PostHog in this file below
```

When prompted, select **No** for TypeScript, **Yes** for `use app router`, **No** for Tailwind CSS and the defaults for every other option.

Next, we set up Posthog using our API key and host (You can find these in [your project settings](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project)). Add the below code to `app/providers.js`:

```js file=app/providers.js
'use client'
import posthog from 'posthog-js'
import { PostHogProvider } from 'posthog-js/react'

if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
  posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {

>     api_host: '<ph_client_api_host>',

Author: Heads up this is changing soon: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/7996

>     api_host: '<ph_client_api_host>',

Reviewer: That PR is over a month old, we should keep using `ph_instance_address` until it merges and that PR can swap them.

    setSelectedModel(models.filter(m => (m.name === event.target.value))[0]);
  };

  const handleSubmit = (event) => {
    event.preventDefault();
    fetchResponse();
  };

  return (
    <div style={{ display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column', alignItems: 'center', justifyContent: 'center', minHeight: '100vh', gap: '20px' }}>
      <form onSubmit={handleSubmit}>
        <input
          type="text"
          value={userInput}
          onChange={handleInputChange}
          placeholder="Type your message"
        />
        <button type="submit">Send</button>
      </form>
      <select value={selectedModel.name} onChange={handleModelChange}>
        {models.map((model, index) => (
          <option key={index} value={model.name}>
            {model.name}
          </option>
        ))}
      </select>     
      <label>API Response:</label>
      <label>{response}</label>
    </div>
  );
};
```

Our basic app is now set up. Run `npm run dev` to see it in app action.

![Basic Next.js app with Cohere](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/video/upload/v1713343598/posthog.com/contents/blog/cohere-app.mp4)

## 2. Capture chat completion events

> With our app set up, we can begin [capturing events](/docs/product-analytics/capture-events) with PostHog. To start, we capture a `cohere_chat_completion` event with properties related to the API request. We find the following properties most useful to capture:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our app set up, we can begin [capturing events](/docs/product-analytics/capture-events) with PostHog. To start, we capture a `cohere_chat_completion` event with properties related to the API request like:
```

```js file=App.js
const fetchResponse = async () => {
    try {

      // your existing code...

      setResponse('Generating...');
      const chat = await cohere.chat({
        model: selectedModel.name,
        message: userInput,
      });

      const inputCostInDollars = chat.meta.billedUnits.inputTokens * selectedModel.token_input_cost
      const outputCostInDollars = chat.meta.billedUnits.outputTokens * selectedModel.token_output_cost
      posthog.capture('cohere_chat_completion', {
        model: selectedModel.name,
        prompt: userInput,
        input_tokens: chat.meta.billedUnits.inputTokens,
        output_tokens: chat.meta.billedUnits.outputTokens,
        input_cost_in_dollars: inputCostInDollars,
        output_cost_in_dollars: outputCostInDollars,
        total_cost_in_dollars: inputCostInDollars + outputCostInDollars
      })

      // your existing code...
```

Refresh your app and submit a few prompts. You should then see your events captured in the [PostHog activity tab](https://us.posthog.com/events).

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={EventsLight} 
  imageDark={EventsDark} 
  alt="Cohere events in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

## 3. Create insights

> Now that we're capturing events, we can create [insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights). Below are three examples of useful metrics you should monitor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we're capturing events, we can create [insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights). Below are three examples of useful metrics:
```

### Total cost per model

To create this insight, go the [Product analytics tab](https://us.posthog.com/insights) and click **+ New insight**. Then:

1. Set the event to `cohere_chat_completion`
2. Click on **Total count** to show a dropdown. Click on **Property value (sum)**.
3. Select the `total_cost_in_dollars` property.

> 4. Cclick **+ Add breakdown** and select `model` from the event properties list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **+ Add breakdown** and select `model` from the event properties list.
```

> **Note:** Insights may show `0` if the total cost is less than `0.01`.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={TotalCostLight} 
  imageDark={TotalCostDark} 
  alt="Total Cohere costs per model in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

### Average cost per user

This metric helps give you an idea of how your costs will scale as your product grows. Creating this insight is similar to creating the one above, however we use **formula mode** to divide the total cost by the total number of users:

1. Set the event to `cohere_chat_completion`
2. Click on **Total count** to show a dropdown. Click on **Property value (sum)**.
3. Select the `total_cost_in_dollars` property.
4. Click **+ Add graph series** (if your visual is set to `number`, switch it back to `trend` first).
5. Change the event name to `cohere_chat_completion`. Then change the value from **Total count** to **Unique users**.
6. Click **Enable formula mode**.
7. In the formula box, enter `A/B`.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={CostPerUserLight} 
  imageDark={CostPerUserDark} 
  alt="Total Cohere costs per user in PostHog" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

### Average API response time

> Cohere's API response time can take long, especially for longer outputs, so it's useful to keep an eye on this. To do this, first we need to modify our event capturing to also include the response time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cohere's API response time can be slow, especially for longer outputs, so it's useful to keep an eye on this. To track this, we first need to modify our event capture to also include the response time:
```
